‎The theme is
‎“Stop Being Molded
by This System of Things.”
‎In describing godly wisdom,
‎the ancient man Job
‎recognized it as priceless.
‎At Job 28:17, he said:
‎“Gold and glass cannot be compared to it.”
‎Glass
—it has been around for centuries,
‎even back in Job’s day.
‎However,
what revolutionized glass production
‎was the invention of glassblowing.
‎By blowing through a hollow tube,
‎a glassblower can quickly mold
superheated molten glass
‎into a specific shape.
‎Satan’s system has developed the art
‎of shaping the minds of people
‎into fragile glass vessels
with little useful purpose.
‎In fact,
Romans 9:22 refers to such ones
‎as “vessels of wrath made fit for destruction.”
‎Find with me Romans 12:2.
‎What is responsible for molding and shaping
‎the inclinations of the people of the world?
‎Romans 12:2:
‎“And stop being molded
by this system of things,
‎“but be transformed
by making your mind over,
‎“so that you
may prove to yourselves
‎the good and acceptable
and perfect will of God.”
‎To counteract “being molded,”
the verse said:
‎“But be transformed
by making your mind over.”
‎So the molding of this system
is related to our thinking
‎—the shaping of our minds.
‎Well, what evil air
is blown down the hollow tube?
‎It’s identified quite clearly for us
at Ephesians 2:2, 3.
‎Concerning a Christian’s previous
unclean thinking and behavior,
‎verse 2 says:
‎“In which you at one time walked
‎“according to the system
of things of this world,
‎“according to the ruler
of the authority of the air,
‎the spirit that is now at work
in the sons of disobedience.”
‎The verse makes clear
that this “system of things” has a ruler.
‎Satan is called
“the ruler of the authority of the air.”
‎The verse indicates
that “the air” is “the spirit” of the world.
‎Well, with such a mind-set,
‎what kind of behavior
does the thinking of the world lead to?
‎Verse 3:
‎“Yes, among them
we all at one time conducted ourselves
‎“in harmony with the desires of our flesh,
‎“carrying out the will
of the flesh and of our thoughts,
‎and we were naturally children
of wrath just as the rest.”
‎For this reason, they become
‎“vessels of wrath made fit for destruction.”
‎Glassblowers often work
in groups known as “shops.”
‎An apprentice dips
a hollow blowpipe into the liquid glass.
‎By twirling it,
he gathers a blob of molten glass.
‎He shapes the blob by rolling it
‎on a smooth surface called a marver.
‎He then passes the tube
to the gaffer, or shop master.
‎He blows air into the tube
and fashions the glass into a globe.
‎If a wine glass is being made,
‎the tube is then passed to the stem-maker
‎and another gather of glass is attached.
‎It is then shaped
by means of long-pointed tongs
‎to form the stem.
‎Then, another gather of hot glass
is added to the stem.
‎The craftsman rolls the tube
on the arm of his chair.
‎He forms the base of the glass.
‎We will briefly consider four ways
‎that this system subtly tries to shape
‎our mind into Satan’s designs.
‎The first is harmful peer pressure.
‎Now, often this is just an apprentice
in Satan’s shop
‎—maybe fellow students in school,
fellow workers on the job.
‎Don’t you think Satan will try to capitalize
‎on these circumstantial relationships?
‎Absolutely!
‎Peer pressure
—it can have an influence on our mind.
‎They may make fun
of our wholesome morals,
‎our clean speech, our dignified dress.
‎That is pressure.
‎Possibly, they invite us to do things
that we know will lead to no good.
‎They are twirling us
‎with their thinking, with their taunts,
‎or maybe with their flattery and temptation.
‎They are rolling things
over and over in our mind.
‎Turn to 2 Peter 2:18, 19.
‎And as you read this,
‎can you pick out a word
that is equivalent to peer pressure?
‎Let’s read
‎2 Peter 2:18, 19:
‎“They make high-sounding statements
that are empty [like air].
‎“By appealing to the desires of the flesh
and with acts of brazen conduct,
‎“they entice [that’s peer pressure] people
‎“who have just escaped
from those who live in error.
‎“While they are promising them freedom,
‎“they themselves are slaves of corruption;
‎“for if anyone is overcome by someone,
‎he is his slave.”
‎The verse says that if we are overcome
by peer pressure—enticed—
‎we actually become a “slave” of that person.
‎That is scary!
‎It’s dangerous!
‎Peer pressure is deceptively strong.
‎Well, what is another way
that the spirit of this system
‎can shape our thinking?
‎You recall that the apprentice
passed the glassblowing tube
‎to the gaffer who blew air
into the glass, giving it shape.
‎What does Satan and this system
next use to mold our thinking?
‎Enticing advertisements.
‎Like the air of a glassblower,
‎advertisements often have little substance.
‎For example,
that product we decided to buy
‎when we last went shopping.
‎Maybe it was a brand of clothing
‎or a brand of dry cereal
we bought for breakfast.
‎Is that always purely a personal,
rational decision on our part?
‎Or did advertising
‎subtly but powerfully affect our choice?
‎Now, it’s not that all advertising
is bad or misleading.
‎But the more
we allow ourselves to be influenced by it,
‎the more we are in danger
of being led into a materialistic way of life.
‎For example,
instead of dry cereal,
‎are we now influenced
to buy that flashy-looking sports car?
‎Turn to 1 John 2:15-17.
‎This system inflates our thinking
by means of “things.”
‎First John 2:15, 16:
‎“Do not love either the world
or the things in the world.
‎“If anyone loves the world,
the love of the Father is not in him;
‎“because everything in the world
‎“—the desire of the flesh
and the desire of the eyes
‎“and the showy display
of one’s means of life—
‎“does not originate with the Father,
‎but originates with the world.”
‎Why do we need to resist catering
‎to advertisements
that feed the spirit of the world?
‎Verse 17:
‎“Furthermore, the world is passing away
‎“and so is its desire,
‎but the one who does
the will of God remains forever.”
‎Remember Eve!
‎Satan advertised the forbidden fruit.
‎The scripture says
it was “desirable to the eyes,
‎. . . the tree was pleasing to look at.”
‎She succumbed to the advertisement
‎with disastrous results.
‎Similarly, Satan used advertisements
to try to reshape Jesus’ focus.
‎Matthew chapter 4 says that Satan
‎“showed him all the kingdoms of the world,”
‎offering them
in exchange for one act of worship.
‎Jesus simply turned him off.
‎Don’t be overly influenced by advertisements.
‎What’s the next aspect of this system
that can distort our minds?
‎Bad associations.
‎It is as if the gaffer
has now passed the glassblowing tube
‎ to the stem-maker.
‎He takes another gather of molten glass
‎and attaches it to our globe.
‎Then he stretches that associated blob
‎into the form of a stem.
‎Well, we already talked about peer pressure,
‎but that often comes
from those who are not necessarily
‎our close associates.
‎What we’re discussing now is our decisions
‎about whom we spend a lot of time with.
‎People who don’t love Jehovah
can stretch and misshape our minds,
‎providing a stem or a handle
for the world to hold us by.
‎Turn to 1 Corinthians 15:33.
‎Sometimes we hear the phrase
that some of the kids in school
‎are nicer than some of the kids
in the congregation.
‎But usually, nicer actually means more fun
‎rather than more wholesome.
‎But let’s look
at 1 Corinthians 15:33 in its context.
‎What did the apostle Paul mean
‎when he said to the Corinthians
“bad associations”?
‎First Corinthians 15:33:
‎“Do not be misled.
‎Bad associations spoil useful habits.”
‎But what made these ones bad association?
‎Let’s see it in context.
‎Look at 1 Corinthians 15:12:
‎“Now if it is being preached
that Christ has been raised from the dead,
‎how is it that some among you say
there is no resurrection of the dead?”
‎Well, what was the initial problem
with these associates?
‎They did not believe the same way.
‎Why would that make them bad associations?
‎Because what an associate believes
‎will eventually affect our thinking,
‎and our thinking affects our behavior.
‎Notice how Paul describes this.
‎Look at 1 Corinthians 15:32.
‎What good is it to endure
the rigors of the Christian race for life
‎if there is no resurrection,
no future, no hope?
‎Verse 32:
‎“If like other men,
I have fought with wild beasts at Ephesus,
‎“of what good is it to me?
‎“If the dead are not to be raised up,
‎‘let us eat and drink,
for tomorrow we are to die.’”
‎May all of us avoid bad association
‎whether in person,
on TV, or on the Internet.
‎What’s a fourth means by which Satan
‎attempts to fashion us,
reshaping our thinking?
‎Higher education.
‎Most of us remember
the January 2015 JW Broadcasting program
‎hosted by Brother Morris
of the Governing Body.
‎He focused on the value of divine education.
‎But he also reaffirmed
‎the dangers
of pursuing higher secular education.
‎Its whole purpose is for learning
—influencing one’s thinking.
‎And while a person’s intention
might be just to create
‎a stable base for his secular future,
‎his decision could expose him
‎to unscriptural ideas and practices.
‎Back to the glass shop.
‎Recall that another gather of hot glass
‎is added to the end of the stem.
‎The craftsman then rolls the tube
backward and forward.
‎He forms the base for the glass.
‎Well, we will say no more about this topic
‎other than what Brother Morris
has already shared.
‎You might want to go back
and review that broadcast.
‎However,
we would like to read 1 Timothy 6:20, 21:
‎“Timothy, guard what
has been entrusted to you
‎“[that’s divine education],
‎“turning away from the empty speeches
that violate what is holy
‎“and from the contradictions
‎“of the falsely called ‘knowledge.’
‎“By making a show of such knowledge,
‎some have deviated from the faith.”
‎Unfortunately, in an effort to make
‎a stable base for one’s financial future,
‎many “have deviated from the faith.”
‎In the visuals of a glassblowing shop,
‎we observed the skill of the workers involved.
‎And that shop obviously produces
‎beautiful, useful glass vessels.
‎Satan’s glass shop
is also skilled at shaping one’s thinking.
‎But what does it produce?
‎Instead of a person becoming
a valuable vessel that Jehovah can use,
‎Satan is actually mass-producing
‎worthless vessels that Jehovah cannot use.
‎What could you do
with this misshaped creation?
‎Nothing
—it is useless.
‎At the outset,
Romans 9:22 was quoted.
‎Those who conform
to Satan’s system are referred to
‎as “vessels of wrath
made fit for destruction.”
‎Jehovah has paid a high price for us.
‎Gold and glass cannot be compared to it.
‎May we make over our minds
by applying godly wisdom.
‎Glorify Jehovah
as a vessel that he can use.
‎First Corinthians 6:20
concludes this discussion nicely, saying:
‎“For you were bought with a price.
‎By all means, glorify God in your body.”